[AUDIO LOGO]
>> The Knights Templar, are
they the guardians of the Holy
Grail?
I'm Timothy Hogan, grandmaster
of the Knights Templar.
>> And I'm Scott Wolter,
forensic geologist
and a Knights Templar.
And this is The Mysteries
of the Knights Templar.
[ADVENTUROUS MUSIC]
Who knew the legends of
the Holy Grail originated
with the Knights Templar?
And that begs the question,
what is the Holy Grail?
Tim, what is it?
>> You know, traditionally it's
always been sold to the public
as the cup that Jesus either
used at the Last Supper,
or in some traditions, it
was the cup that collected
the blood that came out of
the wounds of Jesus as he was
on the cross.
Either way, it was
the cup of Jesus.
>> A physical cup.
>> A physical cup according
to some traditions.
In fact, that's the
popular perception of it.
But in fact, there was a
lot more to this concept.
>> Yes, indeed.
So let's just say for a
second for argument's sake
that the Grail is the cup that
was used at the Last Supper
or to collect the
blood of Christ.
But then where did it go?
It seems to have
disappeared to history.
Or do the Templars have it?
>> Well, this is the deal.
People, from this
point forward, then
hear about the Grail quest, or
the quest for the Holy Grail
to find it.
These ideas were popularized
in the Grail romances that
were associated with the legend
of King Arthur and the round
table.
>> Yep.
>> And the story is also really
emphasized in some of the early
medieval romances like the
story Parzival by Wolfram Von
Eschenbach in the 1200s.
And specifically,
in "Parzival," it
says that the Grail was
guarded by the Knights Templar.
He said the Grail
story was told to him
by a certain Kyot of Provence.
And we actually know
who this Kyot is.
His real name was
Guiot of Provence.
He was someone who probably
knew Wolfram Von Eschenbach
in the German courts.
And they discussed
these Grail stories.
And the evidence
suggests that they
were both Templars themselves.
So they were trying to pass
on this Grail tradition.
There were other Grail stories
though there was a person
by the name of
Chrétien de Troyes, who
created one of the other
first Grail stories.
Chrétien de Troyes also talked
about the Grail, the quest
for the Grail.
It should be pointed
out that Chrétien
lived this town of Troyes.
This is where the Templars
had their rule created.
>> Yep.
By Saint Bernard of Clairvaux.
>> By Saint Bernard
of Clairvaux.
>> In 1129 on January 13, a
papal bull was signed making
the Knights Templar
an official order.
Now, obviously, they existed
before that, but I digress.
>> Right.
Well, and Chretien just happened
to be the cousin of Catherine
de Saint Clair.
And Catherine de Saint
Clair was the wife
of Hugh de Paynes, the first
grand master of the Knights
Templar.
So whether you look to Wolfram
Von Eschenbach or Chrétien
de Troyes, either
way, these stories
go back to the Templars.
>> Right.
So let's just talk for a second.
The Holy Grail being
the cup of Christ
is certainly a
plausible possibility.
What else could it be?
>> So one of the other names
for the Holy Grail according
to these early romances,
particularly Sir Thomas
Mallory's from his "Le
Morte d'Arthur" series,
it refers to the Holy
Grail as the Sangreal.
And if we divide this name
up, it suggests holy blood.
>> Right.
>> Which some have suggested
could represent this holy
bloodline between Mary
Magdalene and Jesus.
But the one thing we
know is this bloodline
has a history of
passing on a tradition.
>> Yes.
>> And this is the tradition
of the spiritual ideas,
which seem to go
back to Atlantis.
In fact, there's
even a suggestion
within French traditions
that the bloodline married
into the Merovingian King line.
>> And Merovingian, of course,
means the vine of Mary, right?
>> The vine of Mary, right.
>> And I don't think they're
talking about the Virgin Mary
here.
>> Correct.
>> It's Mary Magdalene.
They have myths talking
about how this goes back
to some sort of a sea monster
that came out of the sea.
Some have interpreted
this as going back
to the tradition
of the Atlanteans
arriving on the shores of France
and bringing their tradition.
And having their own
traditions surviving
there, then the Bloodline
of Mary and Jesus,
which would have also
recognized it led into later on.
>> Let's talk about
something that is, again,
getting back to some factual
information that most people
are not aware of that supports
this whole bloodline possibly
being the Holy Grail.
Now, at the time of Jesus and
Mary and John the Baptist,
it was part of the tradition.
In fact, it was a requirement
to be a Hebrew priest,
you were required to be married.
And you were required to
have a son for succession.
So this whole idea of Jesus
being married and having
children that is so
heretical to some people
was, in fact, the
required tradition.
>> Tied into this, of course,
the Holy Grail is full of other
symbolism.
I mean, we talked at
an earlier episode
about how the word
grail probably
comes from gra.al,
G-R-A dot A-L, which
was the science of
transmutation or alchemy
from ancient Sumer,
which had been inherited
from the Atlanteans.
We find the same idea in Egypt
where it's called gradal.
And it was said to be a science
which produced the healing
manna and the red
waters of life,
or sometimes known as the
blood of Osiris, which
would in fact be later
known in alchemical texts
as the red lion or
the blood of Christ.
>> Right.
>> So here, we have
this tradition.
In "Parzival," we certainly
have the Grail also being
mentioned as an emerald
but was knocked out
of the crown of Lucifer
during the war in heaven
and was brought to
Earth by neutral angels.
>> Could it be this?
>> Yeah.
Which seems to be suggesting
the Emerald Tablet.
There was certainly a
hermetic mystery there.
In the Grail legends,
it talks about how
there's a Fisher King who
represents the age of the fish.
>> Pisces the fish.
>> Pisces, who's wounded.
He's received a wound where
he's torn between dualities.
He can't sit, but
he can't stand.
He's not alive,
but he's not dead.
He's in this state of limbo.
And it's only the Grail
that's able to heal him
from this state.
Some have suggested that
the Grail in this instance,
as he is sick, the land
becomes sick as well.
So there's as-within-so-without
relationship
or as-above-so-below
relationship that we also find
in the Emerald Tablet.
But we also have the fact
that if he represents
the age of Pisces, then
who's the Grail maiden
with the Grail?
What does she represent?
And it seems to suggest she
can also represent the science
and philosophies
of the Grail, which
are to come to expression
during the new age of Aquarius.
>> So let's talk about that for
a sec because you hear people
talk about ages, you
talk about progressions.
And I think we have to take
a step back and help people
understand that this is
really about astronomy,
and probably, in
my opinion, serves
as the basis for this whole
concept of as above, so below.
And what we're talking
about is the Earth
is surrounded by a
zodiacal belt of the 12
primary constellations
of the Zodiac.
And on the morning of
the spring equinox,
the zodiacal belt goes
through the Eastern sky.
And at any point
in time, you will
have one of those constellations
sitting on the horizon.
And then when the sun rises
through that constellation,
this is sacred and
considered part
of that age, whatever
constellation it is.
If we look at the
12 constellations,
because of the
Earth's slight wobble,
it causes that belt to
rotate around the Earth.
Now, obviously,
it's not rotating.
We are.
And it gives the
appearance of that.
So that's why this thing moves.
But it's been
calculated that it takes
26,000 years for
the zodiacal belt
to make one complete rotation.
Now, that's an
awfully long time.
And if you divide it by 12,
you get about 2,168 years.
Now, the time that
one constellation
spends in the Eastern
sky before it descends
and then the next
one cycles through
is not exactly 2,168 years.
It depends on the size
of the constellation.
>> And also then as we move
forward into Aries during
the time of the end of Aries,
this is where we have Abraham
sacrificing the ram--
>> Yes.
>> --symbolically ending
the age of Aries the ram.
>> Right.
>> And then what
did we move into?
Pisces.
>> When they talk about Jesus,
they say that he was born
of the Lamb of God.
So what does that mean?
Well, what it means is he
was born in the last four
years of Aries the ram, and
then he is initiated by--
>> John the Baptist.
>> Who calls him.
He now becomes the
Fisher King, right?
And the fisher of
men refers to Pisces.
And of course, the
Christian fish that we
see on the back of the cars.
>> And the disciples
are fishermen.
>> Fishermen.
Exactly.
So this is a very
profound thing.
And when people think about
from that perspective,
I think it changes a few things.
What we are living
through right now
is one of the most profound
moments in human history.
Everybody here making this
episode, everybody watching
this episode is part of this.
And what's happening
here is we are not just
living through the transition
from the age of Pisces
to Aquarius, which happens 12
times during this cycle, right?
What's happening now
is we are experiencing
the end of that 26,000
year long cycle,
one of the most profound
moments in human history.
>> One of the symbols for
the age of Pisces is two fish
swimming in opposite directions.
>> Correct.
>> It represents dualities.
But they're in constant
struggle with each other.
Everything is black or
white, good or evil,
these extreme dualities, right?
Whereas the symbol
for Aquarius is two
streams flowing together.
The dualities are still
there, but they're
learning to work within
harmony with each other.
>> Beautiful.
>> And this is one of the ideas
that we find within this story
of "Parzival."
Some have interpreted
the name Parzival itself
as meaning "to pierce
between the two valleys,"
in other words,
the two dualities.
To balance those dualities.
So you're right, we are
going into this period.
And this is why we find
even in the Grail legends,
it's only the Grail
maiden holding
the chalice representing
this age of Aquarius who's
able to heal the dualities
that are taking place
within the Fisher King,
representing the age of Pisces.
>> What do we need to do to
get that opposing fish going
in opposite directions
to come together as one?
>> Well, we have to find
that middle term that unites
everybody.
So the goal is to work
through those dualities
to the center pillar, which
will take us ultimately
to the kingship or keter.
>> Or promised land.
>> Crown.
The promised land, yeah.
So this is all part of the
plans of the Templar work
is to try to get people
to this balanced state,
unite science and
spirituality, to be
able to unite these
dualities and bring us
into better harmony
with ourselves,
with our environment.
And ultimately, the hope is to
set up governmental structures.
In fact, we find
the same structure
with the setting up of the
United States of America.
>> Which came from
the Iroquois nation--
>> Yes.
>> --system of governance.
And Ben Franklin
spent time with them,
and he was really the main
architect behind that.
>> Yeah.
So there was this
democratic idea
that was set up on a three
pillar government, you know,
which had these same
multiple levels like we
find in Kabbalah.
So the Kabbalistic tree and
then the Iroquois system
and this idea of freedom of
the individual going back
through the Gnostic
traditions, all the way
back into Atlantis really
is found in this idea,
this blueprint, if you will.
With the founding
of North America,
really, by the Templars, one
of the significant artifacts
in relation to this was
the Kensington Runestone,
which has the word Grail on it.
>> Yes.
Well, when I first
got involved in it,
I looked at it strictly from
a geological standpoint.
Never heard of the Runestone,
didn't know anything
about the controversy,
and frankly didn't care.
But after I was convinced
by the evidence,
the rock told me it was
an authentic artifact.
But I knew that it was real.
And therefore,
somebody carved it.
They came from someplace.
They came here for some reason.
And that sent me on this--
pardon the pun-- Grail
quest, if you will,
to try to figure
out who carved it.
Well, the trail led to
Gotland and the Cistercians
and the Knights Templar.
And then, of course,
who were the Templars
and the Grail legends
and everything else?
So what does that mean?
What is the Runestone?
And what is in here to
tie it to the Templars?
Well, first and
foremost, on line 2,
it tells us "acquisition
business taking up land."
But it also has codes
embedded within it.
Another code that we
have is a dating code.
Well, we know we have the date
1362 carved in pentadic numbers
in Arabic placement.
And that encrypted date within
the inscription is 1362.
>> Yeah.
>> Which begs the question,
why would they do that?
Well, if somebody took
a chisel and, say,
added another bar to the 3,
you've added 100 years, right?
Ah-ah.
You can't do it because we
protected the date by embedding
a code within the inscription.
But who did this?
The Templars.
>> Of course.
>> We've already
established their brilliance
by the rediscovery of
the Atlantean mysteries,
if you will.
So when we talk about, what
could the Holy Grail be?
I think another candidate that
has to be added to our list
is the ultimate
goal of the Templars
by placing that land claim
was the establishment
of the new Atlantis,
the new Jerusalem,
or what they also called a free
Templar state that we now call
the United States of America.
>> This reminds me even within
the Grail legends themselves,
the Grail was this
elusive object,
which you had to have the right
heart to even hang onto it.
And in fact, that Parzival
shield had a heart on it
for this very reason.
And if people did not
have the right focus,
the goal of their quest
exceeded their grasp.
It was gone.
It was that Grail disappeared.
But it was only
when we ourselves
had the right focus and
the right intentions
that we ourselves become
the new Grail king.
And we have the responsibility
of protecting it at that point.
In a way the Grail
is all these things.
It represents the truth
that we all quest for.
But certainly,
this new expression
that was set up in the
government of the United
States of America was a means to
preserve, protect, and idealize
the greatest potential
within us that we
should be striving for not
only individually, but also as
a nation.
And it's ours to
have as long as we're
able to be responsible with
it and we don't let it go.
Thank you for joining us for
this episode of Mysteries
of the Knights Templar.